# Documenting Python Code with Sphinx (python_proj0)

This project demonstrates how to document code for a simple Python script by using Sphinx. Open the **index.html** file in the **docs/\_build/html** directory to view the autogenerated documentation.

## About the Python Script

This Python script creates a DITA topic map and topics based on the contents of the xml input files. The following command line shows the help output:

```
$ python3 create_map.py -h

create_map.py -m <map> -i <inputdir> -o <outputdir>
```
Use a command line similar to the following to run the script:

```
$ python3 create_map.py -m media.ditamap -i ../tables -o ../media_out
Map name is " media.map "
Input directory is " ../tables "
Output directory is " ../media_out "

Creating media.map

Creating topic for movies.dita
Creating topic for tv_shows.dita
```
## Output

The script ouputs three files:
- media.ditamap
- movies.dita
- tv_shows.dita

## DITA OT Tool Kit

To generate a PDF file, you can copy the three files above to into your DITA OT directory and run the following commnd:

```
bin/dita --input=docsrc/samples/media.ditamap --format=pdf -Dnumbers-before-title=yes
```

This will generate a PDF file, but you can use other formats like "HTML". I like to use section numbering; hence, the "-Dnumbers-before-title=yes". But, you can leave this option out. For DITA OT documentation, see [DITA Open Toolkit](https://www.dita-ot.org/dev/).

## Documenting Code with Sphinx

One of the main objectives of this project was to show how to automatically document the Python code by using Sphinx. Open the **index.html** file in the **docs/\_build/html** folder to see the defintions for the functions of the create_map.py script. For a quick start guide to  document the Python code by using Sphinx, see [Documenting Python code with Sphinx](https://towardsdatascience.com/documenting-python-code-with-sphinx-554e1d6c4f6d).
